Current Version

LEDAPS
Source code: September 18, 2012

Overview

The Landsat Ecosystem Disturbance Adaptive Processing System (LEDAPS) is a NASA project to map disturbance, regrowth, and permanent forest conversion across the continent (Masek et al., 2006). The LEDAPS processes Landsat imagery to surface reflectance, using atmospheric correction routines developed for the Terra MODIS instrument (Vermote et al., 1997). The original LEDAPS software was developed at NASA GSFC by Eric Vermote, Nazmi Saleous, and Jonathan Kutler, and Robert Wolfe with support from the NASA Terrestrial Ecology program (PI: Jeff Masek).  This version was adapted by Dr. Feng Gao. The source code and the previous ancillary data can be downloaded from the NASA LEDAPS web site (http://ledaps.nascom.nasa.gov/tools/tools.html). The ancillary data are updated and maintained in the Hydrology and Remote Sensing Laboratory, USDA-ARS by Feng Gao.

LEDAPS consists of four command-line applications, intended to be run in sequence:

- lndpm:  extracts metadata from the standard Landsat product, and writes configuration files for the rest of the processing chain. Also outputs ENVI header files.
- lndcal: calibrates Landsat-5 TM and Landsat-7 ETM+ data, and generates top-of-atmosphere reflectance.  Also writes TOA brightness temperature file for band 6.
- lndcsm:  generates cloud mask using the ACCA (Automated Cloud Cover Assessment) algorithm (Irish et al., 2006).  (NOTE: This algorithm is no longer used as part of the surface reflectance processing in ESPA.  The internal cloud mask in lndsr is utilized instead.)
- lndsr:  performs atmospheric correction for the Landsat reflective bands using the Vermote et al. (1997) MODIS/6S radiative transfer approach, with aerosols obtained from the image itself using the Kaufmann et al (1997) ?dark dense vegetation? methodology.  
-lndsrbm:  performs surface reflectance based cloud mask detection and overwrites the cloud QA computed in lndsr.

Ancillary NCEP water vapor data and TOMS ozone data are needed for processing.

Citation:

Masek, J.G., E.F. Vermote, N. Saleous, R. Wolfe, F.G. Hall, F. Huemmrich, F. Gao, J. Kutler, and T.K. Lim, A Landsat surface reflectance data set for North America, 1990-2000, Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters, 3, 68-72, 2006.

Additional References:

Irish, R., Barker, J., Goward, S., and Arvidson, T., 2006, Characterization of the Landsat-7 ETM+ Automated Cloud Cover Assessment (ACCA) Algorithm, Photogrammetric Engineering & Remote Sensing, 72, 1179-1188. 

Kaufman, Y., et al., 1997, The MODIS 2.2 micron channel ? Correlation with visible reflectance for use in remote sensing of aerosol, IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote Sens., 35, 1286-1298.

Vermote, E.F. et al., 1997, Atmospheric correction of visible to middle-infrared EOS-MODIS data over land surfaces:  Background, operational algorithm, and validation, J. Geophys. Res., 102, 17131-17141.

System Requirements

The LEDAPS software runs on 32-bit or 64-bit Linux OS.  

Installation, Setup, and Test

Look at the readme.txt file.
